There are many different gem5 CPU types, 3 of which are:

## SimpleCPU

SimpleCPU versions have the following characteristics:
+ Holds an architected state.
+ Implements the following procedures: Interruption checking, fetch requests, pre-execute setup and
advancing the PC to next intructions.
+ Provides an interface to:
  + Read/Write PC information, integer/floating point/control registers and memory.
  + Record and return the adress of memory access and prefetching.
  + Trigger system call and full system functionality.

There are 2 different versions of SimpleCPU that can be run on their own:

### AtomicCPU
_is the version of SimpleCPU that uses atomic memory access._

Atomic memory access is faster than the detailed one. It is used for fast forwarding and warming up
caches. It returns an approximate time to complete the request without encountering any resource 
contention or queueing delay. This is implemented by having only one responder to a single request.
This way, gem5 is faster, but less precise.

### TimingSimpleCPU
_is the version of SimpleCPU that uses timing memory access_

Timing memory access is the most detailed access. It is our best effort to realistically simulate timing. 
It also includes modelling for queueing delays and resources contention.Timing transactions are composed of 
two one-way messages, a request and a response. Once a timing request is successfully sent, the device that 
sent the request will either get the response or a NACK if the request could not be completed. Also, due to 
the fact that timing requests are not instantaneous, flow control is needed.

Atomic and timing accesses can not coexist in the memory system.

## minor
MinorCPU processor model has a fixed pipeline, which is visualized. It is used to model processors with strict 
in-order execution behaviour. This processor model is not capable of multithreading, but can support it.

MinorCPU pipeline consists of:
+ Fetch1: instruction fetch responsible for fetching cache lines
+ Fetch2: line to instruction decomposition
+ Decode: instruction to micro-op decomposition
+ Encode: instruction execution and memory interface

MinorCPU cache consists of:
+ L1 for instructions
+ L1 for data
+ L2
+ WalkCache

## hpi
HPICPU stands for High-Performance In-Order CPU. HPICPU is based on the architecture of MinorCPU adding some extra features.

HPICPU pipeline consists of:
+ Same pipeline with MinorCPU
+ Branch Prediction
+ Functional Units

HPICPU cache consists of:
+ Same cache with MinorCPU
+ Prefetcher
+ TLB (Translation Lookaside Buffer), which is part of the Memory Management Unit. It consists of ITB and DTB 
for instructions and data respectively.
