## Performance Function
### Basic Principles
We have to model our performance function based on the changing variables of our simulations. Specifically:
+ L1 Instruction Size
+ L1 Data Size
+ L2 Size
+ L1 Instruction Associativity
+ L1 Data Associativity
+ L2 Associativity
+ Size or Cache line size

We decided upon simplifying L1 cache,
since Instruction and Data size and associativity for caches is affected significantly by the tested benchmark.
Thus, we don't differentiate them and use a total model for them.  

To model our performance function we have to find a realistic equation.
For this purpose AMAT function is considered fitting and we opted on using it.  

AMAT = L1HitTime + L1MissRate * ( L2HitTime + L2MissRate * L2MissPenalty)  

Now that we chose our main function we have to choose what affects each parameter.
#### Hit Time
Smaller and simpler caches have reduced hit time.  
Thus, higher Cache Size, Associativity and Block size increases Hit time.

#### Miss Rate
Larger block size reduces compulsory and capacity misses respectively since we have more memory.  
Larger cache reduces capacity misses respectively.  
Also increasing associativity increases conflict misses.  
Higher Cache Size, Associativity and Block size reduces Miss Rate.

#### Miss Penalty
When a miss occurs we have to read the whole block, hence the cache line size.  
Higher Cache Size reduces Miss Penalty.

### Principle Modeling
Since principle analysis has been done, we have to quantify our approach for more precise results.  
For this purpose each different parameter has to be mathematically modeled.  
To achieve this each design value cooresponds to a specified value.  

| Cache Size | 16 | 32 | 64 | 128 | 256 | 512 | 1024 | 2048 | 4096 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 1.5 | 2 | 2.5 | 3 | 3.5 | 4 | 4.5 | 5 |

| Associativity | 2 | 4 | 8 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 1.5 | 2 |


| Cache Lize Size | 64 | 128 | 256 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 1.5 | 2 |


#### Hit Time
Based on previously addressed parameters. Hit Time is simply modeled by multiplying Cache Size, Associativity and Block Size.

To normalize this value, research has been done and we have decided on having its ranges between 2-24 ns for L1 cache.  
With our parameter selection the minimal simulation will be [16kB|2|64] which has 2ns Hit Time.  
Also with our parameter selection the maximum simulation will be [256kB|8|256] which has 24ns Hit Time.  

For L2 cache we have decided on ranges between 9-40ns.  
With our parameter selection the minimal simulation will be [256kB|4|64] which has 9ns Hit Time.  
Also with our parameter selection the maximum simulation will be [4096kB|8|256] which has 40ns Hit Time.  

#### Miss Rate
Based on previously addressed parameters, Miss Rate is modeled by deriving Cache Size, Associativity and Block Size.  
While also multiplying by e^((CacheSize+Associativity+BlockSize)/ln(CacheSize+Associativity+BlockSize)).

To normalize this value, research has been done and we have decided on having its ranges between 3-15% for L1 cache.  
With our parameter selection the minimal simulation will be [16kB|2|64] which has 15% Miss Rate.  
Also with our parameter selection the maximum simulation will be [256kB|8|256] which has 3% Miss Rate.  

For L2 cache we have decided on ranges between 3-6.3%.  
With our parameter selection the minimal simulation will be [256kB|4|64] which has 6.3% Miss Rate.  
Also with our parameter selection the maximum simulation will be [4096kB|8|256] which has 3% Miss Rate.  

#### Miss Penalty
Based on previously addressed parameters, Miss Penalty is modeled by multiplying with  
e^(BlockSize+1)*ln(BlockSize*e)*5.3.

To normalize this value, research has been done and we have decided on having its ranges between 40-180ns.  
With our parameter selection the minimal simulation will be [16kB|2|64] which has 40ns Miss Penalty.  
Also with our parameter selection the maximum simulation will be [256kB|8|256] which 180ns Miss Penalty.

### Results
In simulation [16kB|2|256kB|4|64] our performance function has a value of .  
On the contrary in [256kB|8|4096kB|8|256] our performance function has a value of .

So its ranges are between .

## Price Function
### Basic Principles
We have to model our price function based on the changing variables of our simulations. Specifically:
+ L1 Instruction Size
+ L1 Data Size
+ L2 Size
+ L1 Instruction Associativity
+ L1 Data Associativity
+ L2 Associativity
+ Size or Cache line size

We decided upon simplifying L1 cache,
since Instruction and Data size and associativity for caches is affected by significantly by the tested benchmark.  
Thus, we dont differentiate them and use a total model for them.

It is easily understood that every time we increase complexity, price is increased as well.  
Hence, we modeled our function as (L1CacheSize*L1Associativity + L2CacheSize*L2Associativity) * CacheSize

### Principle Modeling
Since principle analysis has been done, we have to quantify our approach for more precise results.  
For this purpose each different parameter has to be mathematically modeled.  
To achieve this each design value cooresponds to a specified value.

| Cache Size | 16 | 32 | 64 | 128 | 256 | 512 | 1024 | 2048 | 4096 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 0.5 | 0.75 | 1 | 1.25 | 1.5 | 1.75 | 2 | 2.25 | 2.5 |

| Associativity | 2 | 4 | 8 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 2 | 3 |


| Cache Lize Size | 64 | 128 | 256 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 2 | 3 |


### Results
In simulation [16kB|2|256kB|4|64] our price function has a value of .  
On the contrary in [256kB|8|4096kB|8|256] our price function has a value of .

So its ranges are between .

## Cost Function
Finally, we need to combine both previously explained functions to define our total cost function.  
This function will calculate our rating of every CPU design.

We tried normalizing both functions to provide siminarly scaled results.  
Sepcifically we added a factor of 5*10^(-6) to the Performance Function.  
Thus, function ranges are:
+ Performance Function: 
+ Price Function:

Using these values and comparing them to our simulation results we have concluded that their behaviour is sufficient.

_this logic was developed and tested but plots deemed insufficient se we tried developing another one described in [2.3]Cost Function_2.md_
